# cs465-fullstack
CS-465 Full Stack Development with MEAN

1. Compare and contrast the types of frontend development you used in your full stack project, including Express HTML, JavaScript, and the single-page application (SPA).:
   While developing the front end of this full-stack project, the first type I used was Express HTML. This was the customer-facing portion that originally consisted of static HTML pages that then was updated to include handlebars to improve its speed. This method because it was static meant that the pages couldn't be updated with new information from any changes in our database. Javascript, on the other hand, allowed me to dynamically update the data on the website such as the trip information to match any changes made by users. Lastly, there was the Single-page application that I used mainly to create the admin page for the web app. The difference between this and the other two development methods is that while the other methods load multiple different pages, there is only one webpage loaded here with only the body being updated based on how you interact with it. The downside to this is that the page never truly resets meaning you can't go back to a prior window.

2. Why did the backend use a NoSQL MongoDB database?:
   The backend for this app used a NoSQL database because data can be stored in an unstructured format. This allows the database to be flexible and can support many widely used data formats like JSON files. While this doesn't mean having multiple different file types in the database, it does mean that the NoSQL database is easier to integrate into our web app and is simpler when it comes to updating data fields.

3. How is JSON different from Javascript and how does JSON tie together the frontend and backend development pieces?:
   JSON is different from Javascript because while Javascript is a core programming language for web pages, JSON is a data format that allows us to send data from the server to the main web page. This allows the JSON file to tie together the frontend and backend by allowing data from the server to be sent to a user's web page. 

4. Provide instances in the full stack process when you refactored code to improve functionality and efficiency, and name the benefits that come from reusable user interface (UI) components.:
   One instance of refactoring the code for functionality and efficiency was when we swapped the website to use a REST API to interact with our database rather than us directly. This swap allowed us to reduce the app's dependency on our specific database meaning that we can swap to a different database easily without affecting the current one. Another benefit to this refactoring is that the database can be accessed by other companies that use REST APIs meaning that that data can be accessed easily. Moving on, the benefit that comes from reusable UI components is mainly that it makes the component easy to place into other pages or be copied into another project. If the UI components code is built for reusability then if we wanted to use the same UI for a different part of the application it makes it very easy to implement and bring over.

5. Methods for request and retrieval necessitate various types of API testing of endpoints, in addition to the difficulties of testing with added layers of security. Explain your understanding of methods, endpoints, and security in a full-stack application.:
  The methods in a full-stack application are what allows the app to work with, access, and edit the database information. The main methods include GET, POST, PUT, and DELETE which are HTTP requests that can access the database in different ways. The endpoints are where the method results and data are sent and displayed to the user. For example, if the user wants to view the trip info available in the app, they would need to access the /travel endpoint to do so. The main way to test if the endpoints are working is if the information is being properly displayed on the endpoint page for whatever it represents. Lastly the security in a full stack application allows the data in the database to be protected from unnecessary changes or edits. For example in the admin app, a user cant edit trip information without having a valid admin login first. This allows the app to protect sensitive data and prevent outside attacks or edits.

7. How has this course helped you in reaching your professional goals? What skills have you learned, developed, or mastered in this course to help you become a more marketable candidate in your career field?:
    This course has been very helpful in reaching my professional goals because it gave me great insight into what makes a good full-stack application. Not only did I get introduced to the MEAN stack, but I was also able to learn about creating dynamic web pages and a working database that updates the page's data. While I know that there is still a lot for me to learn such as other stack development options or working with a SQL database, this course has given me great insight and motivation to continue learning more for my future career in software engineering.
